no not only is it my Godfather's car but
it's a last front-engine winning car in
1964 so this is a this is iconic in so
many different ways and I can actually
see over the steering wheel so imagine
AJ was a little higher I don't see any
power steering lines so I think that it
probably had to wrestle this thing
around and did a lot of sliding a lot of
dirt sliding through the corners in
Indianapolis which today is a big no-no
but um but at least you could always see
your right rear tire and always check it
out it's hard to imagine I think that we
talked you know we talked about it we we
keep thinking about how the evolution
the car is going to go and what's going
to be the next trick or what's going to
be allowed in and you know to think of
when they drove these I mean they had a
hard time conceiving when they brought
the rear-engine car that that was going
to be better the funny thing about it is
after the Indianapolis 500 it AJ
actually took a dirt car and sat on the
pull-up Milwaukee and and I thought that
was that was big time could you see this
big old dirt car next to these two
little roadsters and you know so that
that was that was sort of the beginning
of the end for the Roadster I'm pretty
happy with my window world Dallara I can
tell you that it's got a little bit more
downforce than this and but I have a
feeling this man this car would be a
whole lot more fun to drive around this
big way well I'm gonna say that my
favorite is always going to be the 69
winning car for a lot of different
reasons my uncle and and the way the car
looks you know and I don't know it just
it just has a special feel about it it's
probably because it's mostly free
because of the family but but there are
so many other memorable ones i mean the
Yellow Submarine and you know with
Johnny Rutherford and you know that
brought on a whole new era as well and
so you just see that the cars and I got
to see a lot of these cars win these
races I mean when my godfather aj1 the
77 race I was standing in Tower
terrorists you know on the seats to see
over the people in front of us so i was
there i remember when i can't remember
who broke but AJ took the lead then
and of course the crowd stood and
cheered and and always a fan favorite
and I remember and taking the lead with
this and I remember that was the first
four-time winner and and then you know
so was a big it was a big day obviously
everybody around I was very young but
still I could appreciate that point but
um I mean even this it's it's amazing
you know that um you know you think
about it I mean all this is so thin and
it's just sheet metal and now we're
we're covered in a capsule and and the
safety and all that that's so much
better it's it's it's incredible but but
to think that I mean they built this
down in Texas and brought it here and
you know it was sort of them you know
these are the ideas that I have and
that's what you go with now it's all
done by computers and wind tunnels and
and other things and you know you miss
these days because everybody had a
little bit different idea of how to do
it and how to how to go fast and how to
win yeah I think 1977 was a was another
transition another time that so many
special things happen it was of course
the first time that a female had
qualified for the Indianapolis 500 with
janet guthrie of course we got to hear
ladies and gentlemen start the end start
your engines which which was unique
because everybody was anticipating how
they going to do that it was the first
time that 200 mile an hour barrier was
broke by thomson eva of course the gas
man and you know i was a teammate with
Tom and I know that he can he can get on
it so it was a lot of great things
happen in 77 and I think I'm you know
when people talk about indy car in the
heyday I mean they think of those things
that come back that made it very special
i mean now today even last year i think
we had five women in the 500 and you
know and now it's not you know it's it's
a new story but it's you know and this
is but this is where it all started in
1977 that long ago oh definitely I mean
this this is was this was the thing that
everybody then started to build their
cars towards because obviously I mean it
should have won more than once and I
didn't I broke it would've so it's it's
an amazing piece even today it looks
very very current you know because of
all of being closed in yeah I think the
thing that you look at when you look at
this is I'm one good thing about the
evolution of the Indy car has been they
taking the driver and taking them from
being so far forward to to keep scooting
them back and and that's only for safety
reasons it's not for performance or any
other reason but then you can imagine
Johnny's legs and feet were up here and
and now we're very much back here so
although you don't see that difference
as much in the cars it's it's there and
it's important I'm walking down through
and I'm looking at all these different
cars and I'm looking at all the pieces
they've hung off them and and at that
point they were just the motor was an
animal it was it would produce well over
a thousand horsepower well over probably
1,100 horsepower and they were just
trying to get it to get through the
corner so they had pylon as much when
they weren't worried about drag they
were just worried about trying to get
around the corners and then I look
inside and so many of these cars they
have a lever in the middle and I assume
that that's a weight jacker just to to
help them pump the weight jacker up to
help it give you know during the race to
be able just the car it's you know today
I think that that's really cool we do it
electronically and hydraulically but you
know they were doing it back then but
you know you think of all the drag on
the car that they had to make that kind
of horsepower just to go 180 190 miles
an hour and today if we put one of those
in that dallara we go 250 miles an hour
probably because it's just there's just
it's just raw power and and the motors
bigger and it's turbo charts and you
know even the turbos on them look at how
big it is it's huge so yeah I think that
back then it was all about I know at one
point they even talked about trying to
keep the rear tires from spinning you
know so yeah now the rules say the
we can't be that big and in Indianapolis
you don't really want it that big even
with the other cars because we make so
much downforce underneath now I can tell
you that 67 winning cars here in the
Indianapolis Motor Speedway museum and
if you want to come and see history of
Motorsports this is where it is and I
can't tell you but it this is this is
exciting for me and I love it you know
this this is where it all began and this
is what we're all aspiring to get to